DOC Better document how to handle security issue (#9)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/05_Contributing/17_Managing_Security_Issues.md

---
title: Managing Security Issues

> summary: This document highlights how Silverstripe CMS team handles security issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: This document highlights how the Silverstripe CMS team handles security issue.
```
Do we use the terminology "Silverstripe CMS team" anywhere else? Even I don't know exactly who this is meant to refer to - presumably some combination of CMS Squad and core committers?

Author: What about "Silverstripe CMS security team"?

Reviewer: That sounds good, lets use that across the board in this doc.

iconBrand: github-alt
---

# Managing Security Issues

> This document aims to provide a high level overview of how the Silverstripe CMS team handles security issues. Only members of the Silverstripe CMS security team can perform the actions outlined in this document.

Reviewer: Does "the Silverstripe CMS security team" refer to the actual github team? And is this what is meant by "Silverstripe CMS team" or does that mean some subset or superset of the security team?

Author: There's a bit below about who has access to undisclosed security issues. I'll pull it out to make it clear that they are the "Silverstripe CMS Security team".

## Broad approach

> While the process for handling security issue is publicly visible, only a limited number of participants are privy to the internal pre-disclosure discussions around specific vulnerabilities. Silverstripe staff are granted access to review undisclosed security issues on a need-to-know basis and are bound by their employment contracts. Core committers not currently employed by Silverstripe are allowed to review undisclosed security issues after signing a non-disclosure agreement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the process for handling security issues is publicly visible, only a limited number of participants are privy to the internal pre-disclosure discussions around specific vulnerabilities. Silverstripe ltd staff are granted access to review undisclosed security issues on a need-to-know basis and are bound by their employment contracts. Core committers not currently employed by Silverstripe ltd are allowed to review undisclosed security issues after signing a non-disclosure agreement.
```

Author: While admittedly we haven't done a great job at making this distinction so far, "Silverstripe" and "Silverstripe CMS" are meant to be two different things. "Silverstripe" is meant to refer to the company.

We should avoid the wording "Silverstripe ltd" and use "Silverstripe" instead.

Reviewer: I've created https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/issues/48 to revise the documentation to make this distinction clearer.

> We aim to release security fixes along our regularly scheduled releases to minimise disruption to Silverstripe CMS project. This allows security releases to go through our regular regression testing. This means that we will usually hold back security fixes for a few weeks or a few months while we wait for the next scheduled release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We aim to release security fixes with our regularly scheduled minor releases to minimise disruption to the Silverstripe CMS project. This allows security releases to go through our regular regression testing. We will usually hold back security fixes for a few weeks or months while we wait for the next scheduled release.
```

> minimise disruption to the Silverstripe CMS project

Is it to minimise disruption to the project? I thought it was primarily so that people can plan their upgrades and not be railroaded by sudden security disclosures.

Author: I meant to say

> minimise disruption to Silverstripe CMS projects

> If there's indication that a vulnerability is actively exploited in the wild or if the vulnerability has already been disclosed, a patch will be developed and released as-soon-as-possible. In the case of a zero-day vulnerability, we will endeavour to provide mitigation steps to the Silverstripe CMS community while a patch is being developed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there's indication that a vulnerability is actively exploited in the wild or if the vulnerability has already been disclosed, a patch will be developed and released as soon as possible. In the case of a zero-day vulnerability, we will endeavour to provide mitigation steps to the Silverstripe CMS community while a patch is being developed.
```

Reviewer: We have a mail list for security releases don't we? This seems like a good place to call that out.

Author: The mailing list is for "pre-announcing" security releases without telling people exactly what is coming up. Access to the list is limited to people who can demonstrate a need for it.

If we had a zero-day exploit, there wouldn't be any point pre-announcing it. We would just do a public announcement because the cat is already out of tho bag.

> ## Handling security issue security issues confidentially 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Handling security issues confidentially 
```

This process is relevant when a potential vulnerability is reported confidentially and the Silverstripe CMS development team is in a position to prepare a patch prior to the public disclosure of the vulnerability.

> This process is usually started once someone [reports a security issue](Issues-and-Bugs/##security-issue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is usually started once someone [reports a security issue](issues_and_bugs/#security-issue).
```

### When receiving a report

> * An automated response is sent back to the reporter to acknowledge receipt of their vulnerability report.

Reviewer: Is it? That doesn't seem to be the case.

Author: I sent a dummy request from my personal email and didn't get a response. The Google group is definitively set up to send an automated email, but the wording on the email is horribly out dated.

My thinking is either:
- set up a follow up task to debug the automated response, update the wording and leave the message as-is,
- Get ride of the automated response email and have someone manually send a response.

Reviewer: I think the former makes sense - even if the end result is that we can't figure it out and we end up doing manual responses anyway, I think it's worth someone taking a look to see if they can figure it out.

Author: Created this issue https://github.com/silverstripeltd/product-issues/issues/572

> * Perform an initial assessment of the report.

Reviewer: If these are ordered steps, we should use an ordered (numbered) list instead of an unordered (bulleted) one.

Author: I've switched to an ordered list.

> * [Create a issue in our private security repository](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/issues/new) unless to report is obviously invalid. e.g. SPAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Create a issue in our private security repository](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/issues/new) unless the report is obviously invalid. e.g. SPAM.
```
Need instruction for what to do for invalid reports.

Author: I'll add a SPAM section under "Special circumstances".

> * If encrypted information is provided, attach it to the private security issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If encrypted information or attachments are provided, attach them to the private security issue.
```

> * Reply to [security@silverstripe.org](mailto:security@silverstripe.org) ONLY and provide a link to the private security issue. Keep most of the discussion on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reply to [security@silverstripe.org](mailto:security@silverstripe.org) ONLY (i.e. do not include the reporter in this reply) and provide a link to the private security issue. Keep most of the discussion on GitHub.
```

> * Perform initial criticality assessment. Validate assessment with at least one other member of the security team before replying to the reporter with your conclusion. Ensure the reporter is given a justification for all issues we classify or demote as non-security vulnerabilities. You may need to seek additional information from the reporter before completing the criticality assessment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Perform an initial criticality assessment.
    * You may need to seek additional information from the reporter before completing the criticality assessment.
    * Validate the assessment with at least one other member of the security team before replying to the reporter with your conclusion.
    * Ensure the reporter is given a justification for all issues we conclude are not security vulnerabilities.
```
What does "criticality assessment" mean exactly?

Author: I'll add an extra bit of language to clarify what is expected here.

* Add the new issue in the "Backlog" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1).

> * Use the [CVSS Calculator](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator) to determine the issue severity.

Reviewer: This step should be mentioned earlier - either as a sub-step for "Perform an initial criticality assessment" or immediately following that step, before adding the issue to the backlog

Author: I'll move it up

* Once the issue is confirmed, create a _draft security advisory_ against the relevant GitHub repository. This will allow you to request a CVE.
* Once a CVE has been assigned, respond to issue reporter and add it to the Github issue.

> * Ask the reporter if they want to be credited for the disclosure and under what name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once a CVE has been assigned, add it to the Github issue and respond to the issue reporter.
    * Ask the reporter if they want to be credited for the disclosure and under what name.
```

> * Clarify who picks up and owns the issue (assign in Github).

Reviewer: This should probably be done much earlier on in the process - otherwise the issue could be created and then just never looked at again.

Author: I think I copied that from the existing list and it was meant to be "who will develop the fix".

But, yes that part could come in earlier.

Author: I've moved it up to right after creating the GitHub issue.

  The owner can be separate from the developer resolving the issue,
  their primary responsibility is to ensure the issue keeps moving through the process correctly.

> ### When developing a fix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Developing a fix
```

> * Ensure you're working on the oldest supported minor release branch of every supported major release (see [Supported Versions](#supported-versions))

Reviewer: That anchor doesn't seem to exist on this page.

Author: Fixed.

> * Ensure you're working on the oldest supported minor release branch of every supported major release (see [Supported Versions](#supported-versions))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a fix for the oldest supported minor release branch of each supported major version of the affected module. (see [Supported Versions](#supported-versions))
```

> * Move the issue into "In Progress" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)

Reviewer: This should be the first step

Author: Moved up

> * Add fixes on the [http://github.com/silverstripe-security](http://github.com/silverstripe-security) repo. Don't forget to update branches from the upstream repo.

Reviewer: This should probably be combined with the "use oldest supported minor branches" step.
Also might not hurt to give some indication of how to update branches from upstream, since they're not forks and therefore we can't just click a button in GitHub

Reviewer: For that matter, we should add a step here to create a _new_ private repo in silverstripe-security if there isn't one already, so people don't just instinctively create a fork

Author: I've reorganised this bit and added some extra details.

> * Ensure that all security commit messages are prefixed with the CVE. E.g. "[CVE-2019-001] Fixed invalid XSS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that all security commit messages are prefixed with the CVE. E.g. "[CVE-2019-001] Fixed invalid XSS"
    * If there is no CVE assigned yet, use "[CVE-????-???]" for the prefix, and update it once a CVE is assigned.
```

Author: Done

### Before release

> * For issues rated "high" or "critical" (CVSS of >=7.0), post a pre-announcement to the [security pre-announcement list](https://groups.google.com/a/silverstripe.com/forum/#!forum/security-preannounce).

Reviewer: That URL gives me a 403 error

Author: The link is restricted to very small number of people. There's probably no point having it here.

Reviewer: I agree, should probably be removed if not everyone who can manage the security process has access to do this step.

Author: There's lots of things on this page that most people won't have access to. I'm thinking we probably need to grant the entire CMS squad access to this mailing list

Reviewer: That would make sense. Anyone who is part of the "Silverstripe CMS security team" should probably have whatever access is required to do all of the steps in this document.

Author: Added the entire Squad to the list.

>   It should include a basic "preannouncement description" which doesn't give away too much,
>   the CVSS score as well as the CVE identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It should include a basic "preannouncement description" (which doesn't give away too much),
  the CVSS score, and the CVE identifier.
```

* Create a draft page under [Open Source > Download > Security Releases](https://www.silverstripe.org/admin/pages/edit/show/794).

>   Populate it with the information from the [Github project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1).

Reviewer: Do we use this? If so we should probably look at it as a group at least once per sprint.

Author: I think it's mostly for core committers that don't have direct access to ZenHub.

There's also other internal folks that might need access to know the status of those things.

> * Link to silverstripe.org security release page in the changelog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Link to the silverstripe.org security release page in the changelog.
```
Do you mean https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ or do you mean the specific page for the individual vulnerability (e.g. https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/cve-2022-28803)?

> * Update the _draft security advisory_ on GitHub.

Reviewer: Update it in which manner? Is there a "disclose" button or similar?

Author: I'll clarify this a bit more. In theory, we could drop the advisories from Dot org and only use the ones on GitHub.

However we have a lot of advisories on DotOrg already, so switching between to two could be very time consuming.

* Move the issue to "Awaiting Release" in the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)
 
### After release

> * Publish silverstripe.org security release page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Publish the security vulnerability release page on silverstripe.org
```

> * Respond to issue reporter with reference to the release on the same discussion thread (cc security@silverstripe.org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Respond to the issue reporter with a reference to the release on the same discussion thread (cc security@silverstripe.org)
```
What sort of reference? A link to the security vulnerability page on .org? A link to the changelog? The CVE number? etc...
Also what do we do if the reporter didn't email us (e.g. huntr)?

> * Publish the security advisory on GitHub. This will also publish the CVE.

Reviewer: I feel like we should do this _before_ responding to the reporter. Responding to the reporter feels more like a "We have done all the things" step.

Author: Mitre was quite slow to process those request. I suspect GitHub is a lot faster.

I'll move it up a bit.

* Open a pull request to [https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories/tree/master/silverstripe](https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories/tree/master/silverstripe) repository.
* Move the issue to "Done" in the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)

> ### Detailed CVE and CVSS Guidance

Reviewer: Probably this should be linked to (or at least mentioned) in the steps above that would benefit from this extra context.

Reviewer: Where did this go? I can't find it in the current page?

Author: I've renamed it "Creating a GitHub security advisory". This section used to be about how to request a CVE from Mitre ... the previous title seemed like it wasn't really descriptive with the new context. Happy to revert it if you disagree.

Reviewer: The new name is fine, I just didn't know you'd changed it is all.

* In the GitHub _draft security advisory_, we follow certain conventions on fields:

>   * **Affected product** should have one entry for each composer package affected by the vulnerability. If the patch is backported to older release lines, there should be entries for those older releases.

Reviewer: Define "affected" in this context. Does it mean for the module that holds the vulnerable code and all modules which have it as a dependency?

Author: The GitHub draft advisory form seems pretty self-explanatory to me. It's not clear to me that we need much more detail than that.

Maybe have a look and let me know if you disagree.

Reviewer: I don't have access to actually see the form, but looking at [the docs](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/repository-security-advisories/creating-a-repository-security-advisory) it's not immediately clear to me whether it means _just_ the module(s) that holds the vulnerable code directly, or if it also means all modules which have it as a dependency.

Reviewer: This part hasn't been clarified?

>   * **Affected product** should have one entry for each composer package affected by the vulnerability. If the patch is backported to older release lines, there should be entries for those older releases.

Reviewer: Does "there should be entries for those older releases" mean create a separate draft advisory for each, or is there a way to enter multiple release lines in a single advisory? If the latter, is it immediately clear how to do that when looking at the form?

Author: This is meant to be read in parallel to the actual form. A lot of the words here are form labels.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1168676/180434401-c117bb2d-987b-4e6c-ae42-34c3b927467d.png)

Reviewer: Looking at this, it doesn't seem like there would be _separate_ entries for each release line (which is what the docs as written imply), but rather the "affected versions" constraint should _include_ all of the affected release lines.

Author: To be honest, I'm not 100% sure. This is how we define the omnipay advisory. That's the only time we requested a CVE via GitHub:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1168676/180983496-c29bdbf9-9f27-43b5-aa82-0e16e18f175e.png)

But looking at some of the [Symfony advisories](https://github.com/symfony/symfony/security/advisories/GHSA-2xhg-w2g5-w95x), they seem to use complex range expressions. But since I can't see their actual form, I can't know for sure.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1168676/180987662-a5e8a3d1-a98d-4ff1-b301-265c301e1a28.png)

I figure let's maybe figure out the fine print next time we create an advisory and update he doc accordingly if need be.

Reviewer: Yeah that's fair.
Also looking at the way this displays in omnipay repo looks a little more readable than the full composer constraint symfony uses.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36352093/181115505-60217b32-dd7f-43d7-9096-1094d058be97.png)

It also matches how it's added in the friendsofphp repo, and the packagist advisories API seems to be able to handle it fine. https://packagist.org/api/security-advisories/?packages[]=silverstripe/silverstripe-omnipay

    * **Ecosystem** should always be `composer`.

>     * **Package name** sholud match the package name in Packagist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Package name** must match the package name in Packagist.
```

Author: Fixed

>     * **Affected versions** should be a string reprenting a range of version affected by the vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Affected versions** must be a string representing a range of versions affected by the vulnerability.
```

Reviewer: Is there a specific format for this? e.g. does it have to be a valid composer constraint?

>     * **Patched versions** should be a list version where the vulnerability was/will be patched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Patched versions** must be a list versions where the vulnerability was/will be patched.
```

>   * **Severity** should be set to *Assess severity using CVSS* and the CVSS option should be specified in the calculator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Severity** must be set to *Assess severity using CVSS* and the CVSS option must be specified in the calculator.
```

  * **Common weakness enumerator (CWE)** should be left blank if no suitable option can be found in the list.

>   * **CVE identifier** should be set to "Request CWE ID later".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **CVE identifier** must be set to "Request CVE ID later" until we have had a CVE assigned.
```

>   * **Title** and **Description** should be descriptive enough that people can evaluate the risk without being so specific that would-be-hackers can start exploiting them right away with no efforts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Title** and **Description** should be descriptive enough that people can evaluate the risk without being so specific that would-be hackers can start exploiting them right away.
```

Reviewer: Hyphenation change wasn't made but that's minor so I'll let it be.

> These settings can be changed later, so you can iterate over them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These settings can be changed later, so if you are missing information when you first create the draft you can come back to add the information later.
```

Author: Fixed

## Special circumstances

### An issue has been reported publicly on GitHub

Occasionally, some developers will open a public issue on GitHub reporting a vulnerability, either because they are unaware of the proper process or because they did not immediately grasp the security implication of the bug being reported.

> In those situations, the security team will assess how likely it was that the vulnerability was widely noticed based on how long the issue was opened on GitHub and how explicit the description was. If the risk of the vulnerability having been noticed is small, an owner on the Silverstripe GitHub organisation will delete the public facing issue and create a private one instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In those situations, the security team will assess how likely it was that the vulnerability was widely noticed based on how long the issue was opened on GitHub, whether there were any interactions from other GitHub users, and how explicit the description was. If the risk of the vulnerability having been noticed is small, an owner on the Silverstripe GitHub organisation will delete the public facing issue and create a private one instead.
```
You've got information about what happens if the risk is small, but what if it is _not_ small?

Author: I've added a blurb.

Reviewer: The suggested change above wasn't made yet

Author: I've applied the change.

### Handling issues on Huntr

> [Huntr.dev](https://huntr.dev/) is an open source vulnerability bounty platform. The security team occasionally receives vulnerability reports from Huntr. Reports from Huntr go through more or less the process as the regular reports. The security team should take the following points into consideration when working on a Huntr issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Huntr.dev](https://huntr.dev/) is an open source vulnerability bounty platform. The security team occasionally receives vulnerability reports from Huntr. Reports from Huntr go through the same process as reports received through other methods unless otherwise mentioned in this section. The security team should take the following points into consideration when working on a Huntr issue:
```

> - While you can reply via email and the response will be recorded in Huntr, who sent the response will not. To keep the discussion flowing more naturally, it is preferable to login into Huntr with your GitHub account and respond via the Huntr interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replying to a report from huntr via email will record your response in Huntr, but it will not record who the response is from. To keep the discussion flowing more naturally, it is preferable to login into Huntr with your GitHub account and respond via the Huntr interface.
```

> - People reporting vulnerabilities via Huntr are not always very familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have a lot of context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- People reporting vulnerabilities via Huntr are not always familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have much context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.
```

Reviewer: Please remove "very" or explain why you don't want to.

Author: I've removed the "very". 

Like the rest of this section, this point is not meant to be prescriptive. The bugs we get reported via this channel come from people that might not fully understand the impact of what they are reporting and off the mitigating circumstances.

- Some Huntr reporters are just looking to make a quick buck. Review the reporter's profile to see how serious and reliable they are. Occasionally, some reporters will try to open multiple reports for the same underlying vulnerability or push for a higher CVSS score to get a bigger bounty. Do not hesitate to push back if the reporter is being unreasonable.

> - Once we "confirm" an issue in Huntr, it means that we agree the bug exist and that it's a vulnerability. Security enhancement should not be confirmed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once we "confirm" an issue in Huntr, it means that we agree the bug exists and that it's a vulnerability. Only confirm an issue if you have concluded that it is a valid security vulnerability that we will fix through the normal security process and have validated this conclusion with at least one other member of the security team. Security _enhancements_ should not be confirmed.
```

Author: Fixed.

> - By default, Huntr will issue CVEs for issues reported through their platform. We've disabled this functionality.

Reviewer: Does this need to be mentioned since it's already been disabled?

Author: Researcher will occasionally comment on the fact that there's no CVE assigned to the Huntr issue. It's a deviation from the Huntr workflow.

### A vulnerability has been reported against a dependency of Silverstripe CMS

> Silverstripe CMS relies on many other dependencies. Those dependencies will occasionally have vulnerabilities reported and patched against them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Silverstripe CMS relies on many other dependencies which are outside of our control. Those dependencies will occasionally have vulnerabilities reported and patched against them.
```

> When a vulnerability is disclosed against a Silverstripe CMS dependencies, we generally do not consider this a vulnerability in Silverstripe CMS and will not issue a CVE for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a vulnerability is disclosed against a Silverstripe CMS dependency, we generally do not consider this a vulnerability in Silverstripe CMS and will not issue a CVE for it.
```

We will consider taking actions if:

> - the vulnerability is compounded by the specific way the dependency is used within Silverstripe CMS or
> - a Silverstripe CMS constraint prevents the installation of a patched version of the dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the vulnerability is compounded by the specific way the dependency is used within Silverstripe CMS or
* a Silverstripe CMS constraint prevents the installation of a patched version of the dependency.
```
Asterisks are used elsewhere for unordered lists. Linters complain if you mix and match `*` and `-` in the same file.

> As a general principle, Silverstripe CMS composer constraints do not preclude the installation of dependencies with known vulnerability. It is the responsibility of Silverstripe CMS project owners to regularly update their dependencies and to review the risk posed by specific vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a general principle, Silverstripe CMS composer constraints do not preclude the installation of dependencies with known vulnerabilities. It is the responsibility of Silverstripe CMS project owners to regularly update these constraints and to review the risk posed by specific vulnerabilities.
```

> If you want to preclude the installation of any dependency with known vulnerabilities, you can add the [`roave/security-advisories `](https://packagist.org/packages/roave/security-advisories) packages to your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to preclude the installation of any dependency with known vulnerabilities, you can add the [`roave/security-advisories`](https://packagist.org/packages/roave/security-advisories) package as a dependency to your project.
```
Because this is in a document about how Silverstripe handles security vulnerabilities, it reads as a recommendation that maintainers of Silverstripe CMS can add this as a dependency to supported modules. Perhaps we should just remove this line.

Author: Good point ... I've removed the line.

    It should include all affected versions, including any unsupported release lines.
  * **Affected component(s):** E.g. ORM, Template layer
  * **Suggested description of the vulnerability:** Keep this short, usually the issue title only.
    We want to retain control over editing the description in our own systems without going
    through lengthy CVE change processes.
  * **Reference(s):** Leave this blank. We'll send through a "Link to the advisory" as part of the publication request

## Special circumstances

### An issue has been reported publicly on GitHub

Occasionally, some developers will open a public issue on GitHub reporting a vulnerability, either because they are unaware of the proper process or because they did not immediately grasp the security implication of the bug being reported.

In those situations, the security team will assess how likely it was that the vulnerability was widely noticed based on how long the issue was opened on GitHub and how explicit the description was. If the risk of the vulnerability having been noticed is small, an owner on the Silverstripe GitHub organisation will delete the public facing issue and create a private one instead.

> ### Handling issues on Huntr

Author: The Huntr part is brand new.

[Huntr.dev](https://huntr.dev/) is an open source vulnerability bounty platform. The security team occasionally receives vulnerability reports from Huntr. Reports from Huntr go through more or less the process as the regular reports. The security team should take the following points into consideration when working on a Huntr issue:

- While you can reply via email and the response will be recorded in Huntr, who sent the response will not. To keep the discussion flowing more naturally, it is preferable to login into Huntr with your GitHub account and respond via the Huntr interface.
- People reporting vulnerabilities via Huntr are not always very familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have a lot of context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.

> - Some Huntr reporters are just looking to make a quick buck. Review the reporter's profile to see how serious and reliable they are. Occasionally, some reporters will try to open multiple reports for the same underlying vulnerability or push for a higher CVSS score to get a bigger bounty. Do not hesitate to push back if the reporter is being unreasonable.

Author: That part is a bit more opinionated than usual, but I think it's appropriate in this context.

Reviewer: I don't think the reporter's profile matters - they could have a good history but still push for a higher score on the specific report I'm looking at, or have a trash history but be perfectly reasonable on the specific report I'm looking at.
```suggestion
- Some Huntr reporters are just looking to make a quick buck. Occasionally reporters will try to open multiple reports for the same underlying vulnerability, or push for a higher CVSS score to get a bigger bounty. Do not hesitate to push back if the reporter is being unreasonable.
```

- Once we "confirm" an issue in Huntr, it means that we agree the bug exist and that it's a vulnerability. Security enhancement should not be confirmed.
- By default, Huntr will issue CVEs for issues reported through their platform. We've disabled this functionality.

> ### A vulnerability has been reported against a dependency of Silverstripe CMS

Author: This part is brand new and aims to clarify how we approach dependency management in a security context.

---
title: Managing Security Issues
summary: This document highlights how Silverstripe CMS team handles security issue.
iconBrand: github-alt
---

# Managing Security Issues

> This document aims to provide a high level overview of how the Silverstripe CMS team handles security issues. Only members of the Silverstripe CMS security team can perform the actions outline in this document.

Author: ```suggestion
This document aims to provide a high level overview of how the Silverstripe CMS team handles security issues. Only members of the Silverstripe CMS security team can perform the actions outlined in this document.
```

## Broad approach

> While the process for handling security issue is publicly visible, only a limited number of participants are privy to the internal pre-disclosure discussions around specific vulnerabilities. Silverstripe staff are granted access to review undisclosed security issues on a need-to-know basis and are bound by their employment contracts. Core committers who do not currently work for Silverstripe, are allowed to review undisclosed security issues if they are willing to sign a non-disclosure agreement.

Author: ```suggestion
While the process for handling security issue is publicly visible, only a limited number of participants are privy to the internal pre-disclosure discussions around specific vulnerabilities. Silverstripe staff are granted access to review undisclosed security issues on a need-to-know basis and are bound by their employment contracts. Core committers not currently employed by Silverstripe are allowed to review undisclosed security issues after signing a non-disclosure agreement.
```

> We aim to release security fixes along our regularly scheduled releases to minimise disruption to Silverstripe CMS project. This also allows to take security releases through our regular regression testing. This means that we will occasionally hold back security fixes for a few weeks or a few months while we wait for the next scheduled release.

Author: ```suggestion
We aim to release security fixes along our regularly scheduled releases to minimise disruption to Silverstripe CMS project. This allows security releases to go through our regular regression testing. This means that we will usually hold back security fixes for a few weeks or a few months while we wait for the next scheduled release.
```

> If there's indication that a vulnerability is actively exploited in the wild or if the vulnerability has already been disclosed, a patch will be developed and released as-soon-as-possible. In the case of a zero-day vulnerability, we will endeavour to provide mitigation steps to the Silverstripe CMS community while we a patch is being developed.

Author: ```suggestion
If there's indication that a vulnerability is actively exploited in the wild or if the vulnerability has already been disclosed, a patch will be developed and released as-soon-as-possible. In the case of a zero-day vulnerability, we will endeavour to provide mitigation steps to the Silverstripe CMS community while a patch is being developed.
```

## Handling security issue security issues confidentially 

This process is relevant when a potential vulnerability is reported confidentially and the Silverstripe CMS development team is in a position to prepare a patch prior to the public disclosure of the vulnerability.

This process is usually started once someone [reports a security issue](Issues-and-Bugs/##security-issue).

### When receiving a report

* An automated response is sent back to the reporter to acknowledge receipt of their vulnerability report.
* Perform an initial assessment of the report.
* [Create a issue in our private security repository](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/issues/new) unless to report is obviously invalid. e.g. SPAM.
* If encrypted information is provided, attach it to the private security issue.
* Reply to [security@silverstripe.org](mailto:security@silverstripe.org) ONLY and provide a link to the private security issue. Keep most of the discussion on GitHub.

> * Perform initial criticality assessment. Validate assessment with another member of the security team before replying to the reporter with your conclusion. Ensure the reporter is given a justification for all issues we classify or demote as non-security vulnerabilities. You may need to seek additional information from the reporter before completing the criticality assessment.

Author: ```suggestion
* Perform initial criticality assessment. Validate assessment with at least one other member of the security team before replying to the reporter with your conclusion. Ensure the reporter is given a justification for all issues we classify or demote as non-security vulnerabilities. You may need to seek additional information from the reporter before completing the criticality assessment.
```

* Add the new issue in the "Backlog" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1).

> * Use the [CVSS Calculator](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator) to determine the issue severity

Author: ```suggestion
* Use the [CVSS Calculator](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator) to determine the issue severity.
```

> * Once the issue is confirmed, create a _draft security advisory_ against the relevant GitHub repository. This will allow you to request a CVE.

Author: That part is new. We use to request a CVE directly from Mitre.

Reviewer: Do we have instructions for how to do this? Or a link to instructions?

Author: The link will be specific to the repo where the issue will live.

There's more specific instruction on this point below under "Detailed CVE and CVSS Guidance"

Reviewer: I can't find that heading... did it get removed when you were applying the most recent changes perhaps?

Author: What do you see when you get to https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/security/advisories/new ?

We might need to bump your access a bit.

Reviewer: Gives me a 404 (well have to forgive GitHub using the wrong http response code there).

* Once a CVE has been assigned, respond to issue reporter and add it to the Github issue.
* Ask the reporter if they want to be credited for the disclosure and under what name.
* Clarify who picks up and owns the issue (assign in Github).
  The owner can be separate from the developer resolving the issue,
  their primary responsibility is to ensure the issue keeps moving through the process correctly.

### When developing a fix

* Ensure you're working on the oldest supported minor release branch of every supported major release (see [Supported Versions](#supported-versions))
* Move the issue into "In Progress" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)
* Add fixes on the [http://github.com/silverstripe-security](http://github.com/silverstripe-security) repo. Don't forget to update branches from the upstream repo.
* Ensure that all security commit messages are prefixed with the CVE. E.g. "[CVE-2019-001] Fixed invalid XSS"

> * Get them peer reviewed by posting on security@silverstripe.org with a link to the Github issue

Author: ```suggestion
```

  the CVSS score as well as the CVE identifier.
* Create a draft page under [Open Source > Download > Security Releases](https://www.silverstripe.org/admin/pages/edit/show/794).
  Populate it with the information from the [Github project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1).
* Link to silverstripe.org security release page in the changelog.
* Update the _draft security advisory_ on GitHub.
* Move the issue to "Awaiting Release" in the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)
 
### After release

* Publish silverstripe.org security release page
* Respond to issue reporter with reference to the release on the same discussion thread (cc security@silverstripe.org)
* Publish the security advisory on GitHub. This will also publish the CVE.
* Open a pull request to [https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories/tree/master/silverstripe](https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories/tree/master/silverstripe) repository.
* Move the issue to "Done" in the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)

### Detailed CVE and CVSS Guidance

> * In the [CVE Request Form](https://cveform.mitre.org/), we follow certain conventions on fields:

Author: ```suggestion
* In the GitHub _draft security advisory_, we follow certain conventions on fields:
```

  * **Affected product(s)/code base - Version:** Use Composer constraint notation,
    with one entry per major release line.
    Example for an issue affecting all framework releases: First line `^3.0`, second line `^4.0`.
    We don't know the target release version at this point, so can't set an upper constraint yet.
    It should include all affected versions, including any unsupported release lines.
  * **Affected component(s):** E.g. ORM, Template layer
  * **Suggested description of the vulnerability:** Keep this short, usually the issue title only.
    We want to retain control over editing the description in our own systems without going
    through lengthy CVE change processes.
  * **Reference(s):** Leave this blank. We'll send through a "Link to the advisory" as part of the publication request

## Special circumstances

### An issue has been reported publicly on GitHub

Occasionally, some developers will open a public issue on GitHub reporting a vulnerability, either because they are unaware of the proper process or because they did not immediately grasp the security implication of the bug being reported.

> In those situations, the security team will assess how likely it was that the vulnerability was widely noticed based on how long the issue was open on GitHub and how explicit it was. If the risk of the vulnerability having been link is small, an owner on the Silverstripe GitHub organisation will delete the public facing issue and create a private one instead.

Author: ```suggestion
In those situations, the security team will assess how likely it was that the vulnerability was widely noticed based on how long the issue was opened on GitHub and how explicit the description was. If the risk of the vulnerability having been noticed is small, an owner on the Silverstripe GitHub organisation will delete the public facing issue and create a private one instead.
```

### Handling issues on Huntr

[Huntr.dev](https://huntr.dev/) is an open source vulnerability bounty platform. The security team occasionally receives vulnerability reports from Huntr. Reports from Huntr go through more or less the process as the regular reports. The security team should take the following points into consideration when working on a Huntr issue:

- While you can reply via email and the response will be recorded in Huntr, who sent the response will not. To keep the discussion flowing more naturally, it is preferable to login into Huntr with your GitHub account and respond via the Huntr interface.

> - People reporting vulnerability via Huntr are not always very familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have a lot of context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.

Author: ```suggestion
- People reporting vulnerabilities via Huntr are not always very familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have a lot of context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.
```

> - Some Huntr reporters are just looking to make a quick buck. Review the reporter's profile to see how serious and reliable they are. Occasionally, some reporters will try to open multiple reports for the same problem underlying vulnerability. Do not be hesitant to push back.

Author: ```suggestion
- Some Huntr reporters are just looking to make a quick buck. Review the reporter's profile to see how serious and reliable they are. Occasionally, some reporters will try to open multiple reports for the same underlying vulnerability or push for a higher CVSS score to get a bigger bounty. Do not hesitate to push back if the reporter is being unreasonable.
```

> - Once we "confirm" an issue in Huntr, it means that we agree the bug exist and that it's vulnerability. Security enhancement should not be confirmed.

Author: ```suggestion
- Once we "confirm" an issue in Huntr, it means that we agree the bug exist and that it's a vulnerability. Security enhancement should not be confirmed.
```

- By default, Huntr will issue CVEs for issues reported through their platform. We've disabled this functionality.

### A vulnerability has been reported against a dependency of Silverstripe CMS

> Silverstripe CMS relies on many other dependencies. Some of those dependencies will occasionally have vulnerabilities reported and patched against them.

Author: ```suggestion
Silverstripe CMS relies on many other dependencies. Those dependencies will occasionally have vulnerabilities reported and patched against them.
```

When a vulnerability is disclosed against a Silverstripe CMS dependencies, we generally do not consider this a vulnerability in Silverstripe CMS and will not issue a CVE for it.

We will consider taking actions if:

> - the vulnerability is compounded by the specific the dependency is used within Silverstripe CMS or

Author: ```suggestion
- the vulnerability is compounded by the specific way the dependency is used within Silverstripe CMS or
```

> - Silverstripe CMS constraints prevents the installation of a patched version of the dependency.

Author: ```suggestion
- a Silverstripe CMS constraint prevents the installation of a patched version of the dependency.
```

> As a general principle, Silverstripe CMS composer constraints do not preclude the installation of dependencies with known vulnerability.
> 
> It is the responsibility of Silverstripe CMS project owners to regularly update their dependencies and to review the risk posed by specific vulnerabilities.

Author: ```suggestion
As a general principle, Silverstripe CMS composer constraints do not preclude the installation of dependencies with known vulnerability. It is the responsibility of Silverstripe CMS project owners to regularly update their dependencies and to review the risk posed by specific vulnerabilities.
```

---
title: Managing Security Issues

> summary: This document highlights how Silverstripe CMS security team handles security issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: This document highlights how the Silverstripe CMS security team handles security issues.
```

iconBrand: shield-alt
---

# Managing Security Issues

> This document aims to provide a high level overview of how the Silverstripe CMS team handles security issues. Only members of the Silverstripe CMS security team can perform the actions outlined in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document aims to provide a high level overview of how the Silverstripe CMS security team handles security issues. Only members of the Silverstripe CMS security team can perform the actions outlined in this document.
```
Lets consistently use the same phrase, otherwise it sounds like these are two different teams.

While the process for handling security issues is publicly visible, only a limited number of participants are privy to the internal pre-disclosure discussions around specific vulnerabilities. 

We aim to release security fixes with our regularly scheduled minor releases to minimise disruption to Silverstripe CMS projects. This allows security releases to go through our regular regression testing. We will usually hold back security fixes for a few weeks or months while we wait for the next scheduled release.

If there's indication that a vulnerability is actively exploited in the wild or if the vulnerability has already been disclosed, a patch will be developed and released as soon as possible. In the case of a zero-day vulnerability, we will endeavour to provide mitigation steps to the Silverstripe CMS community while a patch is being developed.

### Silverstripe CMS security team

Silverstripe staff are granted access to review undisclosed security issues on a need-to-know basis and are bound by their employment contracts. Core committers not currently employed by Silverstripe are allowed to review undisclosed security issues after signing a non-disclosure agreement.

> ## Handling security issue confidentially 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Handling security issues confidentially 
```

This process is relevant when a potential vulnerability is reported confidentially and the Silverstripe CMS development team is in a position to prepare a patch prior to the public disclosure of the vulnerability.

> This process is usually started once someone [reports a security issue](issues_and_bugs/#security-issue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is usually started once someone [reports a security issue](issues_and_bugs/#reporting-security-issues).
```

6. Reply to [security@silverstripe.org](mailto:security@silverstripe.org) ONLY (i.e. do not include the reporter in this reply) and provide a link to the private security issue. Keep most of the discussion on GitHub.
7. Perform a criticality assessment to determine how severe the issue is and if it can be replicated.
    - You may need to seek additional information from the reporter before completing the criticality assessment.
    - Validate the assessment with at least one other member of the security team before replying to the reporter with your conclusion.
8. Use the [CVSS Calculator](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator) to determine the issue severity.
9. Ensure the reporter is given a justification for all issues we conclude are not security vulnerabilities.
10. Add the new issue in the "Backlog" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1).
11. Once the issue is confirmed, [create a draft security advisory](#creating-a-github-security-advisory) against the relevant GitHub repository. This will allow you to request a CVE.

> 12. Once a CVE has been assigned, add it to the Github issue and respond to the issue reporter.

Reviewer: Might make sense for these to all be `1.`
When the markdown is rendered they'll have the correct numbers (1-12 in this case) but it means we can add a new item in the middle without having to touch all of the lines below the new one.

Author: This used to be my default approach, however it annoyed other core committers so I stopped doing it.

Reviewer: Huh. I don't see why it would annoy them when it makes it more maintainable, but okay. We can leave this as is for now and revisit how we handle this with the docs linting RFC.

    - Ask the reporter if they want to be credited for the disclosure and under what name.

### Developing a fix

- Move the issue into "In Progress" on the [project board](https://github.com/silverstripe-security/security-issues/projects/1)
- If the silverstripe-security GitHub organisation doesn't have a pre-existing private repo for the module that needs to be fixed, create one and push the public git history to it. You can not do a private fork of a public repo.
- Identify the oldest supported minor release where the vulnerability should be patched for each major release line. (see [Supported Versions](release_process/#supported-versions))
- Make sure the target branches on the private repo are up-to-date with the public repo branches.

> - Create a fix for each major release line and open PRs against the appropriate branches on the private repo. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a fix for each supported major release line and open PRs against the appropriate branches on the private repo. 
```

Author: Fixed

- Ensure that all security commit messages are prefixed with the CVE. E.g. "[CVE-2019-001] Fixed invalid XSS"
  - If there is no CVE assigned yet, use "[CVE-????-???]" for the prefix, and update it once a CVE is assigned.

> - Once peer review is completed on the private PRs, do **not** merge it. The PRs should remain open until the fix is release publicly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once peer review is completed on the private PRs, do **not** merge it. The PRs should remain open until the fix is released publicly.
```

Author: Fixed

If it's likely that the issue was noticed publicly, it should be handle as a zero-day vulnerability and patched as soon as possible.

### Handling issues on Huntr

[Huntr.dev](https://huntr.dev/) is an open source vulnerability bounty platform. The security team occasionally receives vulnerability reports from Huntr. Reports from Huntr go through the same process as reports received through other methods unless otherwise mentioned in this section. The security team should take the following points into consideration when working on a Huntr issue:

- Replying to a report from huntr via email will record your response in Huntr, but it will not record who the response is from. To keep the discussion flowing more naturally, it is preferable to login into Huntr with your GitHub account and respond via the Huntr interface.
- People reporting vulnerabilities via Huntr are not always very familiar with Silverstripe CMS. Don't assume that they have much context on what Silverstripe CMS is used for.

> - Take some time to review the reporter's profile to see how serious and reliable they are.

Reviewer: It's still not clear to me what value doing this has? There's no action to take here like "if they have more bad reports than good ones, ignore the report" - nor do I think we should have such an action. We should review _the report_ and if _the report_ is baseless then we can close it, but I don't think the reporter's profile comes into it at all.

It will be clear from looking at the report whether we have something to fix or not, regardless of "how serious and reliable" the reporter has been with their previous reports.

Author: This part is not meant to be a step by step guide. It's meant to be provide some guidance in how to approach these issues. It's not a substitute for good judgement.

We wouldn't reject an issue out-of-hands because the "reporter has a bad score".

However, if we get a report for an issue that's very thorny and difficult to understand and might take us several hours or days to validate, I think it would be appropriate to take into consideration the reputation of the reporter. e.g. Does the reporter have a bad reputation?  If yes, maybe we put it back on the reporter to provide clearer explanations.

Reviewer: I still don't see it, but I guess at the end of the day it's not harming anyone having this line here so I'm okay with it.

- By default, Huntr will issue CVEs for issues reported through their platform. We've disabled this functionality.
- Marked the issue as "fixed" in hunter once a patched has been released.

### A vulnerability has been reported against a dependency of Silverstripe CMS

Silverstripe CMS relies on many other dependencies which are outside of our control. Those dependencies will occasionally have vulnerabilities reported and patched against them.

When a vulnerability is disclosed against a Silverstripe CMS dependency, we generally do not consider this a vulnerability in Silverstripe CMS and will not issue a CVE for it.

We will consider taking actions if:
- the vulnerability is compounded by the specific way the dependency is used within Silverstripe CMS or
- a Silverstripe CMS constraint prevents the installation of a patched version of the dependency.

As a general principle, Silverstripe CMS composer constraints do not preclude the installation of dependencies with known vulnerabilities. It is the responsibility of Silverstripe CMS project owners to regularly update these constraints and to review the risk posed by specific vulnerabilities.

### SPAM vulnerability report

> We receive a substantial amount of SPAM at our security email address. Those fall intro 3 broad categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We receive a substantial amount of SPAM at our security email address. Those fall into 3 broad categories.
```

#### Straight up untargeted SPAM

> Simply ignore those request and mark them as SPAM in your email client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply ignore these emails and mark them as SPAM in your email client.
```

Author: Fixed

> #### Non-security requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Non-security requests
```

Author: Fixed

Our security email is the only email address bots can find on our website. We get a lot of generic requests. e.g. _Your site is awesome, would you like me to contribute a guest post?_

Provide a cursory response such as:

> This email address is only used to report potential security issues with Silverstripe CMS.

> If more invalid request a received from that sender, they should be blocked from the mailing list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If more invalid requests are received from that sender, they should be blocked from the mailing list.
```

Author: Fixed

#### Low quality security reports

> We get a lot of boiler plate vulnerability reports from individuals hoping to collect bounties. Those requests are usually crafted to obscure their none-sensical nature. It can be difficult to quickly ascertain that those requests are invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We get a lot of boiler plate vulnerability reports from individuals hoping to collect bounties. These requests are usually crafted to obscure their non-sensical nature.
```

Author: Fixed

> When dealing with some those requests, provide a brief response explaining why the request is invalid and include some boiler plate language such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When dealing with this kind of request, provide a brief response explaining why the request is invalid and include some boiler plate language such as:
```

Author: Fixed
